For the purposes of this thematic analysis, I'll be exploring the subtexts of the Steins;Gate and Steins;Gate 0 Series regarding themes that I'm genuinely surprised that nobody else seems to have picked-up on considering how common they are in the Western world, especially from Hollywood films. To that end, I won't be delving into the overt themes that are made completely clear by the narrative itself such as the Orihime and Hikoboshi theme, the theme of Mozart and Salieri behind the relationship between Hiyajo Maho and Makise Kurisu, or the Time Paradox involving Shiina Kagari and Okabe Rintaro's shared lullaby. These were already established and given satisfying resolutions within the narrative itself. What I will be exploring are themes that were more explicitly mentioned in the Steins;Gate Visual Novel and then more implicitly expressed in the Steins;Gate 0 Visual Novel such as references to Gehenna, the Voice of God, the Laws of God, and prayers for a better future. The explicit to implicit themes essentially involve Abrahamic cultural concepts such as the definition of a Messiah, references to the Last Supper before Moeka's betrayal as an Agent of Sern, the jokes involving Christian references between Okabe and Kurisu's private discussions, and references to Kurisu being a God such as the Mayuri Ending of the original Steins;Gate Visual Novel where Okabe makes the reference to Kurisu's Godhood explicitly when he thinks about her. These explicit references in the Steins;Gate Visual Novel are then made implicit and expressed throughout the story of the Steins;Gate 0 Visual Novel. However, I've noticed the Anime adaptions add extra layers to these themes that give both a deeper meaning to the narrative and a more satisfying resolution to the themes and story itself.Nevertheless, there's probably still a strong degree of skepticism. The best that I can say is that I had refrained from making any analyses on the themes of the Steins;Gate series until reading the entirety of the visual novels and attaining all endings for both the Steins;Gate and Steins;Gate 0 visual novels. I had strongly suspected that there were Abrahamic cultural themes after watching the anime ending of Steins;Gate 0, but I stopped myself from writing about it because I considered the possibility that it was purely coincidental and I worried that I was simply reading too deeply into the themes. I decided to wait until I had completed reading both visual novels before forming any conclusions and it was the ample evidence of consistent mentions of Abrahamic cultural concepts, definitions, and references within both visual novels that led me to conclude that my notions weren't pure coincidence or nonsensical. I wanted to be clear on that point. I was very careful to spend as much time thoroughly reading the source material of both visual novels to their completion before writing this thematic analysis specifically because I was worried about drawing erroneous conclusions about the Steins;Gate series. However, both visual novels only helped to lend further credence to Steins;Gate having Abrahamic cultural themes. Most of these themes are metaphorical, but there is one specific character whose depiction might be allegorical and not strictly metaphorical like the other major characters. For the sake of credibility, I'll begin with the most explicit depiction of an Abrahamic cultural theme and then I'll elaborate on the metaphors that other characters more subtly represent in the story and provide my reasons for why I think the Anime adaptions, particularly the Steins;Gate 0 anime, added changes from its visual novel counterpart specifically to deepen the Abrahamic cultural themes for a stronger resolution. Finally, it should be made clear that when I say Abrahamic cultural themes, I specifically mean how they've blended Islamic and Christian mythology whereby certain characters like Shiina Kagari and Okabe Rintaro represent metaphors from Islamic mythology whereas Makise Kurisu and Alexis Leskinen better represent the mythology of Christianity. That's why I specify it as Abrahamic cultural themes because the subtext delves into the mythologies of both Islam and Christianity. As further proof of having clear in Abrahamic cultural themes in the Steins;Gate series. I had planned on jotting down and writing my thoughts on what I think Shiina Mayuri was a metaphor of, but outside of maybe the Steins;Gate 0 opening song arguably representing her personal perspective since she was the one who ultimately decided to go to the past; the opening cinematic of the first episode (excluding the pilot) was Shiina Mayuri's thoughts on what she should have done on July 28th, 2010 and what she chose to do instead, so the song titled Fatima may actually be Mayuri's thoughts and feelings. Unfortunately, it's somewhat muddled as a definite metaphor since Future Mayuri obviously believed in a God as Kagari's introspective dialogue and history prove. The song itself has a decree of atheism and the only character who is explicitly an atheist in Steins;Gate is Makise Kurisu who mentions it in passing during her discussion with Okabe Rintaro on the roof of the Radio building in the Beta timeline. Thus, I've opted not to add that since it seems too circumstantial.

